Hello and welcome to the next part of the algorithm section.
Yes I'm still excited despite the next topic which is probably my least favorite.
You see in the past when I learned about sorting it involved a lot of math a lot of different algorithms
and I just never really enjoyed it because I didn't understand why we needed to know sorting.
I mean you just have a sort function usually in a programming language and that's it.
Right.
I just never understood the point of it.
And you were probably thinking the same thing.
All right.
Andre there's nothing to learn here.
I'm going to skip over the sections gray lesson.
See you later.
Right.
Well not really.
Let me explain in an interview.
Sorting is really important.
You hear questions like take an array of numbers and sort them or the interviewer wants you to do something
to some input and they tell you that this input is sorted and you're wondering why did they just tell
us that.
Why does it matter if it's sorted or not.
And why do companies care so much about sorting if I can just use the builtin sort method in my own
language.
Well here's the thing sorting is not a big deal when it comes to small input data.
You'd be right.
You can just do something like this.
We'd have an array of letters and this array simply has a
D say Z.
Let's add a few more.
The R and finally be.
And if somebody says to sort this well we can just use something like a sort method that comes with
most languages.
And if I run this look that nice and easy just started everything.
I'm a genius right.
Why would companies ever ask such a simple question of us.
You see the problem is when inputs get larger and larger kind of like when me talked about big-O we
don't care about small inputs.
That's easy to do especially with our modern fast computers.
It starts costing companies a lot of money when we have to perform operations on larger and larger data
sets.
That's when things become a little bit crazy and expensive.
For example Google has a ton of Web sites that are indexed What if they need to sort those Web sites
in a way perhaps sorting a news article based on the time that it was released.
And because we're talking about Google here we're not talking about 10 articles we're talking about
thousands millions more articles sorted based on data.
What about Amazon.
Amazon is all about sorting they sort their products based on category based on price based on rating.
And they have millions of products.
What about Apple.
Well Apple has the Apple store and they list all their apps and some for more of a sorted order podcasts
in a sorted order.
What about Microsoft.
Well Microsoft they need to sort all their logs of let's say their their data centers around the world
so that if an incident happens they know where it's coming from and then Netflix what they need to sort
their shows their movies their TV shows somehow.
Right.
And they can't usually just use a built in sort method that comes with the language and they usually
need custom sorted methods based on the data so that they can lower their costs and lower the operations
that their computers need to do.
Most places sort their data or preprocess it and all these companies including small ones usually sort
data to make sure that it's meaningful if it's random data that is not sorted.
It's really really hard to access.
So most of the time we sort data or preprocess it.
Now the examples that I just talked about they are a little bit silly but it does prove my point.
For these companies if they do something wrong or they do it in an inefficient way it means losing a
lot of money.
That's why they ask these questions in an interview they want to make sure you understand how important
the topic is and they you can make the right decision as your employee what sorting algorithm should
be used based on the problem.
So that's the goal of this section.
I'm going to show you how to implement sorting on your own if you want but most importantly we're going
to talk about the different sorting algorithms available to you and how he can make the right decisions
for your company and obviously to a start coding injury.
Now the reason that most sorting algorithm lessons get really boring is that there's so many sorting
algorithms.
If we search sorting algorithms on Wikipedia you get a pretty large list and implementing these sorts
one by one yourself takes a lot of time but most likely you will never implement your own sorting algorithm
in your life except for maybe a simple one in an interview because most of these especially the advanced
ones that are really fast are done by academics that spend years figuring out what the best most optimal
way of sorting is and interviewers don't expect to be able to implement every single sorting algorithm.
My goal in this section is to teach the high level why you need to know to become a better engineer
and also the coding interview I'll show you how to implement some of the poor and sorting algorithms.
But more importantly we're going to talk about the tradeoffs between them so that you're able to talk
about them intelligently during an interview for the next few videos.
We're going to talk about these sorting algorithms and also a couple of bonus ones towards the end but
the key thing to remember is that as more and more data is handled by our computers which is a big trending
computing sorting and searching are two of the biggest computer science problems in the software world
searching we're going to get into the next section.
But sorting is something we'll have for the master at the end of these videos.
So let's go learn how to make good decisions when it comes to sorting.